# Network Layer :

- It defines the protocols which are responsible for the logical transmission of data over the entire network. 
- It exchange information through intermediate system called routers.
- And the unit of information in network layer called packets.
- The primary role of the network layer is deceptively simple—to move packets from a sending host to a receiving host
-  To do so, two important network-layer functions can be identified:
1. Forwarding :  When a packet arrives at a router’s input link, the router must move the packet to the appropriate output link
2. Routing : The network layer must determine the route or path taken by packets as they flow from a sender to a receiver. The   algorithms that calculate these paths are referred to as routing algorithms. 


- The main protocols residing at this layer are as follows:

 IP
 ICMP
 ARP


## Internet Protocol :

- IP stands for Internet Protocol and it is responsible for delivering packets from the source host to the destination host by looking at the IP addresses in the packet headers. 
- IP has 2 versions: IPv4 and IPv6. IPv4 is the one that most websites are using currently. But IPv6 is growing as the number of IPv4 addresses is limited in number when compared to the number of users.

**What is packets ?**
All data sent over the Internet is broken down into smaller chunks called "packets."

### IPv4 -



## ICMP :

- ICMP stands for Internet Control Message Protocol. It is encapsulated within IP datagrams and is responsible for providing hosts with information about network problems.

## ARP :

- ARP stands for Address Resolution Protocol. Its job is to find the hardware address of a host from a known IP address. ARP has several types: Reverse ARP, Proxy ARP, Gratuitous ARP, and Inverse ARP.


## Routing Protocols :

